DOCSP-25516 Add missing content on custom output (#103)
mongodb/docs-atlas-cli: source/custom-output-cli.txt

.. _go-template-output: 

> =============================
> Customize the {+atlas-cli+} Output
> =============================

Reviewer: The length of this is causing a build error. Add this and it should resolve the error
```suggestion
==================================
Customize the {+atlas-cli+} Output
==================================
```

.. default-domain:: mongodb

> You can customize the {+atlas-cli+} output fields and format using a ``Go`` 

Reviewer: Don't think we need the monospace here
```suggestion
You can customize the {+atlas-cli+} output fields and format using a Go
```

> template or a JSON path.

Reviewer: We should add a line here on why someone might want to do this. I believe this would be why, but check with engineering:
```suggestion
template or a JSON path, which makes it easier to automate processes based on the 
output from the {+atlas-cli+}.
```

                    
Go templates
------------
                    

> You can specify the Go template with the command for a simple output 
> or through a separate file for a complex output. For information on the 
> template, see `Package template <https://golang.org/pkg/text/template/>`__. 

Reviewer: Simplifying text where it's a little tough to parse and changing "the template" to "a template"
```suggestion
You can specify a Go template within any {+atlas-cli+} command 
or through a separate file. To learn more about 
Go templates, see `Package template <https://golang.org/pkg/text/template/>`__. 
```

> For information on the types and properties available for each response, see: 
> 
> - `Atlas types <https://go.mongodb.org/atlas/mongodbatlas/>`__

Reviewer: Removing the bullet since the other list items are now gone
```suggestion
To learn the types and properties available for each response, see 
`Atlas types <https://go.mongodb.org/atlas/mongodbatlas/>`__.
```

Syntax
~~~~~~

You can specify a template with the command using the ``--output`` or 
``-o`` option: 

.. code-block:: shell 
   :copyable: false 

   --output|-o go-template="{{<template>}}"

> You can specify a template using a file using the ``--output`` or 

Reviewer: Making this clear that this is an either/or situation not to be used together
```suggestion
Alternatively, you can specify a template through a file using the ``--output`` or 
```

``-o`` option: 

.. code-block:: shell 
   :copyable: false 

   --output|-o go-template-file="<path-to-template-file>"

Examples 
~~~~~~~~

.. tabs:: 

   .. tab:: Specify Template With the Command
      :tabid: template-command

      Retrieve the Number of Projects
      ```````````````````````````````

>       The following command uses the template to retrieve a count of 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      The following command uses a template to retrieve a count of 
```

>       the number of projects in the specified organization using the 
>       {+default-profile+}:

Reviewer: That source constant links out to mongocli content, so lets remove it
```suggestion
      the number of projects in the specified organization:
```

      
      The following command uses the ``template.tmpl`` file to retrieve 
      the IDs of the projects in the specified organization using the 
      {+default-profile+}:

      .. code-block:: shell 
       
         atlas projects ls --orgId 5ab5cedf5g5h5i5j5kl12mn4 -o go-template-file="template.tmpl"

      The preceding command returns the following output: 

      .. code-block:: shell 
         :copyable: false 

         Projects: 5e2211c17a3e5a48f5497de3 5f455b39749bea5fb575dccc

.. _json-path-output-option:

``json-path`` Output Type
-------------------------

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

The ``json-path`` output type limits the results of a command to the 
fields you specify.

Usage
~~~~~

When you add the ``--output`` option to a command, you can specify the 
type ``json-path``. You must provide ``json-path`` with an expression 
to evaluate against your results, which means you must be aware of the 
``json`` fields returned by your command.

Syntax
~~~~~~

.. code-block:: shell
   :copyable: false

   <command> --output|-o json-path='$<expression>'

> ``json-path`` expressions refer to the |json| element that a {+mcli+} 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``json-path`` expressions refer to the |json| element that an {+atlas-cli+} 
```

command returns. The ``$`` character represents the root element, which 
is usually an object or an array.

For a list of valid characters and their functions, see `JSONPath expressions <https://goessner.net/articles/JsonPath/index.html#e2>`__.

Examples
~~~~~~~~

Return the description of the first |api| key in a list
```````````````````````````````````````````````````````

In the following example, a user retrieves their |api| keys with 

> :ref:`atlas-iam-organizations-apiKeys-list`. The ``json-path`` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:ref:`atlas-organizations-apiKeys-list`. The ``json-path`` 
```

expression limits the output to the ``desc`` field of the first key, 
rather than returning the entire list of keys.

.. code-block:: shell
   :copyable: false 

>    atlas iam organization apikeys list --output json-path='$[0].desc'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   atlas organizations apikeys list --output json-path='$[0].desc'
```

``--output json-path`` with the expression ``$[0].desc`` finds and 
returns only the value ``"owner_key"``:

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false
   :emphasize-lines: 1-2, 4

   [ //``$`` represents the outer array.
     { // ``[0]`` refers to the first element in the array (using a 0-based index).
       "id": "60e736a95d585d2c9ccf2d19",
       "desc": "owner_key", //``.desc`` refers to the ``desc`` field of that element.
       "roles": [
         {
           "orgId": "5d961a949ccf64b4e7f53bac",
           "roleName": "ORG_OWNER"
         }
       ],
       "privateKey": "********-****-****-c4e26334754f",
       "publicKey": "xtfmtguk"
     },
     {
       "id": "d2c9ccf2d1960e736a95d585",
       "desc": "member_key",
       "roles": [
         {
           "orgId": "5d961a949ccf64b4e7f53bac",
           "roleName": "ORG_MEMBER"
         }
       ],
       "privateKey": "********-****-****-c4e26334754f",
       "publicKey": "vfgcttku"
     },
   ]

Return the description of a specific |api| key in a list
````````````````````````````````````````````````````````

In the following example, a user retrieves their |api| keys with 

> :ref:`atlas-iam-organizations-apiKeys-list`. The ``json-path`` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:ref:`atlas-organizations-apiKeys-list`. The ``json-path`` 
```

expression limits the output to the ``desc`` field of the specific 
|json| object with ``id`` ``d2c9ccf2d1960e736a95d585``.

.. code-block:: shell
   :copyable: false 
   

>    atlas iam organization apikeys list --output json-path='$[? @.id=="d2c9ccf2d1960e736a95d585"].desc'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   atlas organizations apikeys list --output json-path='$[? @.id=="d2c9ccf2d1960e736a95d585"].desc'
```

   > member_key

Return the status of a private endpoint
```````````````````````````````````````

In the following example, a user retrieves information for a 
private endpoint with 

> :ref:`atlas-atlas-privateEndpoints-aws-describe`. The ``json-path`` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:ref:`atlas-privateEndpoints-aws-describe`. The ``json-path`` 
```
